This is unironically the intro that I
have chosen, which is this beautiful
post by htmx or actually just the banner,
which he tends to take pictures of
things people positively say on Reddit,
and then make them his banner.
So this one says, the creator of htmx is
a blowhard who found fertile ground for
his broken library in the minds
of back-end devs that refuse to
learn JavaScript for
reasons that are 20 years out of date.
It's propaganda being spread by
propagandists, ignore them all, and
they'll go away.
I am a propagandist being paid by big
HTML money, very excited about this.
I don't know what it is about the world
of HTMX, but for whatever reason,
it has just the bizarrest,
either lovers or haters of it.
There is just zero middle ground for
this library.
I recently saw a tweet saying someone says
that they're very convinced that there's
influence or money behind HTMX.
I don't know what that means yet, I would
love to know more about this influencer.
But if anyone would like to send me some,
please Twitch,
Prime are always accepted around here.
All right, so there you go,
this beautiful thing and,
yes, this was literally my introduction.
You're welcome, but hypermedia
has been around for a long time.
There's been papers, engineering exercises
long before the Internet had such a wide
pipe that, I mean, even in 1995, there was
discussions in white papers about how to
use this as an engine
of application state.
So this is a fairly older and
more researched topic.
It's not just some new library
that recently came out,
it's been going on now for
dang near 30 years.
So hopefully,
everyone's kind of excited about that.
All right, so
there is more to HTMX than just the memes.
Yes, they use their Twitter quite a bit
to deliver all the sweet memes, but
really it's just so people can learn about
HTMX, it's a great marketing strategy.
You would think that it's a whole
team of people doing something,
spreading the word since it's
going all over the place.
And yes, it's now on Frontend Masters,
but, no,
it's just one slightly unhinged man in
Montana tweeting from his professorship.
Nobody knows what's happening, and
it's actually is used in production.
There is a nice, beautiful talk about
somebody how they went from React to HTMX
reduced a huge number of their libraries,
how fast they're able to build
the project,
there's a list of sites that use it.
I have people that have reached out to me
that have converted their big projects
from SPAs into HTMX, several of them
with lots of lots of engineers,
and they found that they are now moving
faster, it's easier to reason about.
And I do think that there's not like
every single application should be
written in HTMX.
And I think there's actually a good deal
of applications that probably are easier
or harder with client-side state
management, I just really don't know.
But I do think that there is
a sweet spot for HTMX, and so
at the end of this course I will try to
give you what I think is the goods place,
what's the bad place, and
hopefully, you can do that too.
So why do I like HTMX?
Well, it's kind of a long story,
but in about, what, 2009,
that movie, the social media one,
what's it called?
Does anyone remember what it's called?
>> The Social Awkward.
>> The Social Awkward, yeah,
that's what it's called.
Where Mark Zuckerberg discovers Facebook,
and
that he discovers people really
like to know who's dating who, and
that's like the point of the story, and
it blows up and all these things happen.
And I remember watching that show and
getting so
pumped up to create my own website and
all that.
Even though, I was in college and
all that, I was like gee, dang it,
we're gonna do this.
And so that's what I did, I sat down and
for 80 hours a week, I tried to learn how
to make websites for, gosh,
four years straight, something like that.
And it was fantastic, I made websites,
tried to do all these things, lost all my
money, lived in a small studio apartment
where the man below me smoked meth, and
threatened to kill me, and my beautiful
wife, so we eventually moved out of there.
Fantastic times, but
that was the introduction into
the web programming world that I had.
And through that, I got to see
a whole bunch of change, right?
I started before jQuery was super popular,
and then during the height of jQuery,
where you'd even do your math via jQuery,
you know that whole
jQuery dollar sign three dot add for,
it was really really beautiful.
Those are the good days, and
so that was the height of it,
you can see all
the Stack Overflow questions,
that every last one was answered with
jQuery no matter what it was, fantastic.
And then React came out, and
at that point I was working at Netflix.
By the way I work at Netflix and
during that time,
I remember thinking this is the coolest
thing ever, because I've been using
jQuery, and all this stuff to
manage my website for so long.
And now, there's like something that
feels better, it feels more exciting, and
I couldn't believe how cool it was.
And so we started doing that, and
even at Netflix, we started adopting it,
even for television platform,
and it took us a long time.
And during that process,
it went from classes are the best
to classes are the worst.
We had functional component use effect,
don't use effect, and just kept on
changing, and kept on happening
over the course of the eight years.
And in there, I tried to solve a lot of
the data fetching problems that people run
into with SPAs.
And they're rerunning into and
rediscovering the glories of the N+1
query problem in RSCs right now.
And so it's just like you watch
all these things happen, and
you realize that maybe something
went wrong along the way.
Maybe things weren't exactly
what I thought they were.
And I started becoming disenfranchised
about six years ago, and
I just became progressively more.
And I've just been looking around trying
to find something that is maybe less
foot gunning, something that less
causes so many easy problems.
And, yeah, there will always be
the website that needs these high powered
engines, but for
the most part, for all of us,
they're just making our nice little
reel of cat photos on the Internet.
You just don't need necessarily
the largest possible state.
I think of the, I don't know if you
guys watched the One Piece live action,
but when the greatest swordsman fight ever
happens, and he pulls out the little teeny
tiny sword, the answer was you just
don't hunt fish with a cannon.
And it's just like, yeah, sometimes you
just gotta get the little sword out,
you don't have to have the big one, and
so I just absolutely love that part.
And so that's kind of HTMX, that's kind of
why I love it is that it kind of fit this
weird place that I've been looking for,
which is I just need something that I can
reason about in a more engineering sense
about how something moves over time,
cuz that's ultimately what I'd like.
HTMX is extremely Googleable, if you
happen to know what you're looking for,
if you know the terms,
it's extremely Googleable.
I'll show you,
if I go like this, htmx select,
it's gonna come up as one of the first
things of how you do a thing.
So hx-select, it's gonna give you
all the notes for it, it's very,
very easy to learn how to use this,
everything is extremely lookupable.
And I helped build the LSP,
which is pretty nice,
it really only works
with Neovim right now.
I'm sure someone, I know it kind of has a
VS Code integration, it's not on Mason or
anything, but it's all kind of there,
it's pretty nice.
There's a great book, the book is really
great, it's free digitally, so go use it.
You can also get HTMX coffee mugs that
exclaim that you are a HTMX shill,
very good with influencer money.
So fantastic stuff out there.